The experiment in question examines encoding variability which posits that memory for an event/item/etc is improved by experiencing it on multiple occassions or in different manners. The idea is that this differential experience creates different representations of said memory which build off of each other to form a stronger representation.

In our experiment, variable encoding is encouraged by repeatedly presenting an image, but with different areas obsscured by a mask (The idea is that covering up portions of the image encourages participants to look at other areas, thus experiencing the image differently each viewing). We can manipulate how much of the image is obscured (i use obscure and degredation interchangeably). The intent behind this manipulation is that obscuring more causes them to scan different areas of the image. If this is the case, then our question is, paradoxically, do participants form a better memory for an image if we show them less of it during study?

At test, we present participants with a series of images. Some are images shown during study. Some are similar lures.

What we'll be looking at is the hit rates for correctly recognizing studied items and rejection rates for rejecting similar lures and dprime which is computed from these two.

#----Psuedocode

Load required libaries

Get a list of data files in the relevant directory, stored in a vector

Use a loop to read in each file and concatonate them into a master dataframe

Group the data by participant, trial type, and degredation level
Calculate average accuracy of each condition.

relable data as hit rate and correct rejection rate (raw data only stores as correct incorrect)

compute dprime for each level of degredation for each participant
compute the average dprime for each level of degredation

run analysis comparing dprime for images shown with no degredation to dprime for each degredation condition. Anova and post-hoc t-tests should do the trick for a first pass.

Does dprime increase with increasing levels of degredation? Is dprime for any level of degredation higher than dprime when images are shown with no degredation?